This is Jocco podcast number 104.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco willing.
Good evening, I come.
Good evening.
We're going to go right into Q&A.
I don't think there's anything to discuss.
Let's do it.
Yeah, let's do it then.
It's Q&A time.
All right, question number one.
You discuss leading and maneuvering up and down the chain of command.
But what about laterally within your own peer group?
With a competition for advancement is fiercest and your ability to set team objectives and
implement some of the tools you discuss is limited.
Okay, so you absolutely do have to lead laterally amongst your peers.
And since you don't have rank or position, you have to do it another way.
But wait a second, since you shouldn't use rank or position to lead people below you
in the chain of command, and since you don't want to be led by someone that's throwing
their rank and position around and guess what?
You need to do the same type of leadership that you would use up and down the chain
of command to lead your peers.
So what does that mean?
That means you help them when you can.
You support what they're doing.
You try and build a relationship with them.
That's what you try and do.
Now this part of this that we're talking about, they're competitiveness.
But if they want to maneuver and try and make you look bad and jump in the spotlight and
try and get all the credit, guess what?
That's fine.
Let them do it.
And everyone is going to see what they're doing.
And they might not see it immediately, but they will eventually be found out.
So do your best to support them.
Do your best to help them.
Do your best to build the relationship.
Make the mission the most important thing, not the little politics that you're about to
dive into and get involved in.
Don't make that the primary thing, make the primary thing, accomplishing the mission.
Think about this.
If you start fighting with them, you're expanding energy on fighting your own team.
That's what you're doing.
Instead of fighting the enemy, this is a blue on blue situation.
This is friendly fire.
It's fratricide.
Don't do that.
Disengage from the friendly fire and focus on how to make the team win.
Take the high ground.
Take the high ground or the high ground will take you.
Okay.
Another one of those points that we always say, I know I do.
I always think this way.
People are watching, man.
They see that.
They see all that stuff.
Let's play this game to the game where I play with it.
Who would you hire?
Who would you rather have working for you?
The guy, the guy, oh, you got four guys.
One guy is helping the other guys out, trying to help them with their mission.
One guy, the other end of the spectrum, is undermining people and trying to make himself
look good.
Which guy are you going to promote?
All day long, you know who you're going to promote.
You're going to promote the guy that's trying to help the team win and not just look
out for himself.
Yep.
Yeah, fully.
And then it and consider that with not just your boss, but your peers as well.
Even if there's competition, let's say everyone's competing.
Yeah.
And you're the guy who's jumping in the spotlight, always whatever versus the other guy
who's always helping everyone.
Right.
Even if they're competing with you first of all, the guy who's jumping in the spotlight,
he's going to get ostracized differently.
Yes.
So, man, yeah, they see that stuff, man.
That goes socially too.
You know what?
No, answer me this.
When someone sees the world this way, that means that I have a tendency to think that way,
that means that I might have a tendency to act this way.
They've got to be especially cautious.
If you're looking at everyone like, well, I'm trying to compete with that guy.
I might be getting screwed over.
If I let him get the spotlight right now.
If that's the way you're thinking, that's the way you're acting.
And if you're acting that way, everybody can see it.
Yeah.
It's no an act that way.
Be a good team member.
Yeah.
The enemy is outside the wire.
Yeah, that's a good one too, where the good news about that is, like, let's say you are
acting that way.
As long as you can admit it to yourself.
Even if you do have those feelings inside, but you're like, hey, I don't want to act like that.
And you start acting in a field.
It's kind of against your feelings.
And then you start acting that way slowly and slowly, your feelings kind of accommodate,
where you don't feel that way anymore.
You'll start to feel that way.
Let's start to realize how you should act as a human being.
Yeah.
As a team member, as a leader, as a follower.
You'll grow up, you'll mature, you'll be a good person.
Feel the benefit.
As opposed to just looking out for yourself, school and other team.
Yeah.
Once against me.
Check.
Next question.
My duty to school is small, and I'm a white belt under three months.
And they're typically two or three blues and maybe a purple belt in the class with us.
When I train or spar with a blue and purple belt, I can win the advantage or submit them
more than half the time.
They don't like me because of this.
I like what my instructor is teaching, but I feel I need more of a challenge.
Should I find more a more competitive school?
Your time is appreciated.
Okay, so there's something very suspect going on.
Yeah.
There's something wrong with the school if you are a white belt that can submit blues and
purples.
Yeah.
And I don't know whether or not maybe if you're 500 pounds or just a super athlete, if you're
a normal person, even if you wrestled in high school, maybe even if you wrestled in college.
Again, you've been training jiu-jitsu for three months.
You should not be submitting purple belts.
That should not be happening.
Now, there's a small chance of tiny, tiny chance that there just be like so super cool.
They're letting that, like they're saying, oh yeah, you know, oh that was good.
You know, you caught me at my arm and there's giving it a year, just too dumb to realize
that.
But since you're saying that they don't like you because you're submitting them,
that's very unlikely that they're just super nice.
So I think you may actually be in a fraudulent situation where the school is not a proper
school.
And I haven't heard one of these in a while, but a white belt should not be on the regular
submitting a blue belt and definitely a purple belt for any purple belts.
If there's a massive size differential, it'd be an occasional occurrence, but on the regular
shouldn't be happening.
Yeah.
Correct.
Yeah, I mean, unless again, like there's maybe, maybe it's a small school, you know,
there's, you know, a few people, maybe like some real old people or something like that.
Maybe this guy, I don't know how big he is.
Yeah.
But let's say he was too, I'm, I'm getting really specific here.
What a piece.
Two, twenty, five.
Solid.
Six, two.
Mayerman out of being a college wrestler.
Okay.
Learned a few jokes, guillotine.
Yeah.
Okay.
He had an arm.
Yeah.
Our bar.
You know, because he's two twenty five college wrestler, six to, he knows basic submissions.
That, that, that could be problematic.
And then the rest of the people, there's maybe like a 65 year old, 135, 135 pounds.
Yeah.
You know, if there's no extreme, um, disparity between you and the other students, we have
a problem.
Yeah.
If there's an extreme disparity, even then you should go look around because even if you're
even if you're two hundred twenty five pounds, six foot two wrestling college, most
purple belts should be able to handle you if you've only been trained for two months.
Yes.
Yeah.
So.
And not to say my situation, so all the years proof.
I'm not saying that.
But just an example.
I was two, when I started, I was two twenty five.
I'd say when I really settled into it, I lost.
I got down to about two fifteen to twenty.
Oh.
And I was a white belt.
Over three months, by the way.
And I rolled with this guy.
George was his name.
You might remember him.
Small teeny guy.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Purple belt.
No chance.
I had with this guy.
More than three months, by the way.
This after I started competing in a big.
No, George is good too.
Yeah.
Purple belt.
He's the only taught me first.
For sure.
But yeah, no chance.
Purple belt like him.
You have no chance against him.
Yeah.
But this is not a big guy.
You know, he's six.
I think you might be smaller than five six.
He's a small.
I liked.
Yeah.
That's a great example.
Trying to think.
I mean, when I started GJ2, I was two hundred and fifteen pounds.
Well, it was bigger than two hundred and fifteen pounds.
And Dean was a blue belt.
Just got his blue belt.
And I had no chance.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
And by the way, I forgot to mention, Dean weighed 174 pounds.
Yeah.
So yeah, it's very similar.
Yeah, you'd have to like get the disparity between the two would boot up to be a lot
a lot.
So what do you think it is then?
I think like it might be a fraudulent school.
Like what?
The instructor's not a real black belt.
The instructor knows he's watched enough YouTube to show an arm lock and he can actually
do it on the purple belt because he's a bigger and stronger or something.
And he knows it a little bit better because it's facing it.
If you're a, if you watched YouTube and you studied this hard as I could, as you
could and you owned a school and you trained all the time, you could be a blue belt
level.
And then you can be the other blue belts that you taught.
And then gave the blue belt because you gave yourself a black belt.
That's probably what's going on.
Yeah.
That's crazy.
Whoever this is hit me up again and tell me what your school is.
Yeah.
One face bookie.
Wow.
Yeah.
Really this question.
Once you do that and once you, you know, and I don't know.
I mean, is that a, is that like a, is that a hard move to be like, hey, this is my
school and put it out there.
And here's my instructor.
I mean, on one hand, you want to think if the instructor is legit, no, no, no, no, no, no,
that's what I would learn to know.
I want to, if the, if the guy wasn't legit, I don't know what I do.
I don't have a plan for that.
But if the guy was legit, I'd come back on here and say, oh, here's the situation.
Yeah.
You found out that this is what's going on.
You are a six, two, two, one, eighty, five pound collegiate, anti double H ampian
wrestler and you studied sombo or do you, like if somebody had sombo or do you know
under their belt?
Yep.
You wouldn't even be asking this question if you had that under your belt because you
know the answer.
Yeah, that's true, too.
Yeah, man.
So yeah, I think, yeah, the chance of that is fair, it's a fair chance fraudulent situation.
I haven't seen too many of those lately.
Yeah, because that's a rare thing.
Yeah, the internet can mop those up now.
Yeah.
Used to be all kinds of fraudulent schools.
Yeah, it makes sense.
I mean, think about it.
The internet is all over everything.
Oh, yeah.
You get even a half-flate fraudulent person.
Yeah.
It's like, okay, this guy, fraudulent.
You know what I mean?
He's like, man, you really tell to the coals.
So I don't know.
Maybe.
To it up.
Yeah.
I was going to say, should we have some kind of thing on our website where we have
if you're a legit school, like a jockel approved school?
In theory.
Is how many times a day do you get asked?
I live in Tennessee, where she's right.
I live in Chicago, where she's right.
How many times do you get asked that a day?
Half.
So every other day is that about that.
I really get asked more than that.
I get asked a lot more than you.
Maybe not tons more, but definitely I get asked repeatedly.
Yeah.
Where's that train I live in?
Jacksonville, Florida.
Whatever.
You know, New Hampshire.
Where's that train I live in?
Salt Lake City, Utah.
You know what I mean?
People always ask.
Yeah, the only risk with that is like, okay, so first off, we don't know all the schools.
We've been like, don't you know how to school?
Yeah.
And just because you say you're under Hickson, it doesn't mean you're legit.
Yeah, you know, so it's like, just we'd have to have some sort of an approval process.
Yeah.
And then at the end of the day, let's say you approve.
I don't know.
Could some place and then it then some people see it or, no, no, or people will be like,
Okay, here's the page or the website or whatever they'll be like, okay, this school that I'm like,
looking at, I like it, but it's not on this list.
But I don't know.
We didn't get to it kind of thing and then it gets kind of like the day, you know.
It shouldn't be that much of a problem, by the way.
There's not that many fraudulent schools.
We're talking about one right now, possibly, but there's not many out there.
Although they're not so.
Yeah, they're like, they're in strip malls.
You drive by like a strip mall and you see something that says,
Jiu-Jitsu, I mean, no, now there's legit schools in strip malls.
Two of those companies will score.
You're following.
He says legit is he can't legit.
Yeah, legit is legit.
Yeah, it's hard.
You know, I don't know.
But yeah, the, there's actually more strip malls is actually the normal place for
Jiu-Jitsu schools now that I think about it.
Yeah, there's a lot of crazy people.
No one plays, yeah.
Yeah.
The reason one is straight up in the mall.
Oh, and that's not a strip mall, then I'm all.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, come on.
I'm not going to have to go visit Compreeto.
Yeah.
If you watch that video I did with them for a metamorphosis long time ago,
it's like, I forget it feels like I'll fix it now.
But there's this cool, you know, those trains that go around the mall for the kids.
Yeah, it's like, I hate the Chuchu train because it always comes with the by my academy.
Yeah, that's funny.
Especially because the company is such a nice guy.
You figure he like, I love that Chuchu train.
Even, that's exactly how he said it.
It's not like he said it, but he says, I hate it.
Meanwhile, he's smiling.
Yeah.
It's very interesting.
That caught him.
You know it.
Yeah, more information needed on this academy.
Next question.
I am seeing it work as a very assertive and aggressive dude.
And I seem to rub people the wrong way.
When they think I'm upset or frustrated at problems, they present, which is really the case.
I'm just so fired up.
How do I work on my cat while still being assertive with my team?
You know what?
I'm fired up too.
Sure.
I like that.
And when I was young, this is, when I was young, sure, I rub some people the wrong way.
I know that.
Even when I was a young kid working on a construction site, guess what I was doing?
Working too hard.
Making people rub people the wrong way.
When I got to the team, there was a little crew of us that were too hard to car.
We were too fired up.
We were, I would run the O course with my, with a rock sack with a 40 pound pound sandbag at it.
No one was doing that.
Everyone does it now, but back then there was a small crew of us that were doing it.
Running with jungle boots all the time instead of sneakers.
And I literally got pulled aside by some of the old guys.
And by old guys, I don't mean nom.
I mean old guys from wherever, you know, from the, from the 90s.
Or the late 80s.
And you know, I'd get the, they just need to calm down, dude.
You know, you don't need to do that.
And so yeah, maybe I wrote those guys a little bit,
the wrong way, understandable.
But when I got a little older and a little bit more mature,
I got fired up to actually do a good job as a leader to actually build relationships with my
putoon mates. And I got fired up for people to instead of thinking that I was upset or frustrated.
What I was fired up was I wanted people to think that I was calm and cool and collected.
So how's that for totally different?
It's like when we say default aggressive.
Yeah.
And I always say, hey, you're not being aggressive.
And this is being aggressive towards people.
It's not yelling.
It's being aggressive towards your mission.
I was, I'm aggressive towards making people think that I'm not upset.
And that no matter what's going on, the things of man,
chocolates of these not going to lose his temporary super level headed.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, not now.
That being shed.
That doesn't mean that I was passive.
That doesn't mean that I wasn't assertive.
It means that I was aggressive and assertive,
but I did it with tact and instead of coming that people straight on,
I flanked them.
I've listened to their little ideas or I made their ideas come from me,
but they didn't know it.
I listened to their solutions.
I helped and supported.
Well, you go so far just by helping people out and helping them with their idea.
Instead of trying to control them and make everything your idea.
So that's my advice here.
Relax calm down.
Focus.
Get fired up.
Get aggressive about being tactful.
Get aggressive about working with people.
Get aggressive about showing your calmness.
That's what you get aggressive about.
Yeah.
Don't get assertive aggressive and create antagonistic relationships across your company.
Check.
Yeah.
Sounds good.
He said he gets or they think he gets upset or frustrated at problems that they present.
Yeah.
Which is rarely the case.
He said I'm just fired up.
So it seems like and I'm no expert, but I'm trying to put myself in this position where
I think maybe like it is just a presentation thing.
Yeah.
It definitely is a presentation.
It's aggressive.
Like he's saying he's not even getting frustrated.
No.
He's not getting frustrated with him.
For acting just right.
Yeah.
I'm sure mine is.
It's definitely.
It's definitely a presentation thing.
No doubt about it.
Yeah.
But so that means you say, okay, I'm presenting the wrong thing.
I will fix what I'm presenting.
Yeah.
Do you think?
Actually, I think you do think this or know this or whatever.
You know how people they'll they'll get nuts or whatever.
They'll they'll be aggressive.
They get fired up.
Right.
And you know, they'll be the loser temper or they're behaving away.
That's that's aggressive towards people.
And their justification is not to say this guy does this.
I don't know, but I'm just saying they're justification is I'm just passionate about it.
I'm just whatever, you know.
Yeah.
Is that that's just the justification right?
It is because yeah, like if at the end of the day it is it's a justification.
It is also a reality.
So think about it from the other perspective, if you're dealing with someone, if you have someone on your team, that gets all that they're passionate about something.
And it can be problematic if they don't learn to control their passions, right?
Because they just get, hey, we're going to make this happen and they make bad decisions because they're so passionate about making something happen that they're not doing something logical.
So yes, you could say it's just an excuse.
There's no such thing as a passionate person, but that actually wouldn't be true.
It's not an excuse.
It's a real thing.
Now, if you are aware of that, then why do you keep acting that way?
You've got to put your passions into check.
That's what you've got to do.
100% yeah.
And I meant more like it's an excuse for their behavior.
You know, like to me, I personally, I think that being passionate about something that you're into is good.
Way of beneficial.
Of course.
But again, you know, let's say like, there's a difference between what you feel and how you behave.
You know, so if you're, if you're super passionate about something, it doesn't justify it.
Like all this irrational or emotional or like loss of temper situation behavior.
You seem to say until, you know, yeah, be passionate, but don't behave in some crazy off the handle it.
Agreed.
So I think that they use their passion as an excuse for their behavior.
I just got a quick temper man.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It doesn't mean that you can act like a woman.
Well, that's worse.
That's, that's the same thing.
That's the same thing.
Same thing.
Exactly.
That's just why I'm, I'm unique in that way.
Next question.
My wife told me that she thinks are eleven year old daughters being bullied emotionally by some girls at school.
As I drove into work, I wondered if due to, would give her some tools to help her deal with emotional stress and or bullying that might be taking place.
I think we all know they answer that.
We'll give to this question. Absolutely. Jitu will help eleven years old as a perfect age for getting in there and you will learn to she will learn to defend herself for real and physical confrontations, which will give her confidence, because let's face it.
Emotional and verbal bullying is absolutely backed up by a either.
Clear message of possible violence or a subliminal message of possible violence, right?
I mean, a big girl that's getting picked on the, the underlying messages there, the implied messages there that it could go physical if it had to.
And when that gets removed because the daughter knows how to now fight and defend herself, that starts to impact these emotional bullies as well.
So yes, absolutely.
Get her training. I would throw some boxing in there too, just because that is a pretty empowering thing. You're punching something that feels good and you know what, while we're at it, let's get some working out going on.
Right? Get a pull up bar, get away of the warrior kid, no kidding.
Yeah.
Absolutely get her way of the warrior kid. Don't baby her too much. Yeah. You got to be careful that because she's your daughter and you say, oh, you know, it's so horrible and these girls are picking it. Don't don't do that because guess what?
She's going to be dealing with us her whole life.
You're going to be getting there's always bullies in every environment in the in school environment and the work environment in everywhere there's bullies. Then she's going to have to deal with them. So don't don't baby her where she thinks that you're the one that's going to save her from it.
And I also think she knows that everyone gets bullied.
I got asked that when the warrior kid came out someone said, would you get bullied and they think, of course, I would never get bullied because I'm a big dude. Well, guess what?
When I was nine years old, I was a scrawny little nine year old kid and every buddy that was eleven was bigger than me and stronger than me.
And then when I was eleven, everyone that was thirteen was bigger than me than stronger than me. And when I was fourteen, everyone that was sixteen was bigger than me and stronger than me. So, so you no matter who you are as a kid, there's always somebody that's bigger than you that's going to bully you if they're a jerk.
So, I think she should understand that she's getting bullied right now, but that's that happens to people and people get over it and get through it.
And I do think you have to be when you say that you can't leave them, you can't overwhelm her and say everyone gets bullied and you can always get bullied in the office.
You know what I mean? I'm not saying to overwhelm her, I think that's just like, there's a lot, did you ever see the movie the professional?
Which one was it? The first guy. Oh yeah, yeah.
And yeah, there's a great scene in that movie where the girl is there's like crazy fight going on between her parents and the apartment, they're yelling each other in the screaming, there's slapping people, the domestic violence is going on and she comes out and she's sitting in the hallway.
And she's crying and the assassin guy kind of walks up the stairs and she looks and he looks at her and she looks at him and she says,
Is life always like this or does it get better when you get older? And he looks at her and says, always like this.
So you gotta be careful that that's not the message that you're sending now there's some reality to that statement like, yeah, guess what life is always going to be hard and you do want to give your kids enough exposure to the hard thing so that they're not weak.
Yeah. And they don't they don't go into panic mode when something tough enters their world. So that's why things like you're just working out or good and exposing them and letting them experience some hard things.
But again, you just don't want to overwhelm her and that's that and by the way, you might as well start training, jiu-jiu-jiu, they're dead.
We get the mom in there too. Yeah, now you gotta excuse to get down in that gym. Yeah, jiu-jitsu want. And I know you don't train jiu-jitsu because if you did, you wouldn't be asking this question, you being getting her training.
Yeah. You make it out of happiness. So you emotionally bullied.
So this is interesting.
In the new warrior kid book, the bully. There's a bully in there, but he's not a bully like Kenny Williams. Who's a big strong bully. He's a bully that's an emotional bully kind of is deep.
And every time there seems like there's going to be a confrontation he finds a way to weasel out of it. Yeah.
You know, so he'll harass people, but then he'll get harassed people. He knows perfectly how to push the buttons. That's what Mark's are dealing with.
It's a kid named Nathan James. Nathan James causes problems. Yeah, there's some layers in that name for sure.
That I saw this, this makes a lot of sense to me because I have a daughter.
Four and a half by the way, it goes to pre-K.
It's like pre-school. Pre-K, is that the jiu-jiu school she goes, no.
No, bra. Anyway, she's a instructor.
She told me one day. She said that her friends, I'm not going to say their name doesn't matter.
She said, this friend told me that she's not my friend. She's only this other girls friend.
That's emotional. That's emotional bullying.
Right. Right. For the four and a half year old version of the way. So it gets way worse at 11, by the way. And then probably way worse at 15, 16.
It's just my assumption. So what I told her, not to say this is the right answer, but maybe it's something to think about.
So my daughter does jiu-jiu has done jiu-jitsu. Double leg choke. Well, like it. Well, that's what you want to say.
It's smashed it and she's bigger than everyone. No. No. No.
So what would you tell her? My daughter's trained to be a nice bro. I always have this underlying thing.
No matter if someone beats me into you, that doesn't mean you be mean to them. That makes you mean person.
I said, mean people will be mean to other people. Nice people tend to not be mean to other people.
That's really real basic stuff.
Fundamental. I like it. Yeah. But she's for her.
So you just keep reminding her. So I told her, hey, look, if she doesn't want to be your friend, then she's not your friend.
And that's okay. Does that mean you be mean to her? No.
But at the end of the day, she and I said, are you stronger than her? She said, yeah.
Is it? Are you smarter than her? She said, yeah. I don't know. She is a reason. Here's the thing.
It's a self-empowering thing, just like how you said, where she knows you jiu-jitsu. She smarter.
She's stronger. She can do more pull-ups. She can do more burpees and stuff like that.
All this stuff. It starts to form in her head. Hopefully.
Oh, the go. Yeah. Hopefully little form in her head that if they don't want to be my friend.
That's okay. That's no loss to me. Maybe if someone who's strong like me, smart like me.
And whatever like me didn't want to be, well, maybe that's something, but this isn't the case.
It's kind of that idea. I think that's going to be the advice. I think the thing of just saying, oh, yeah.
That's okay. Not everyone's going to want to be your friend. That's okay.
Yeah. And some people are going to like you and some people aren't going to like you. That's okay.
You just be nice to everyone. That's fine. Yeah.
I got to ask that question when we did the one warrior kid podcast a bunch of people asked, oh, my, I feel like people don't want to hang around with me.
And I was like, yeah, that's okay. That's okay. You don't need to hang around with people all the time.
I don't, I don't like even like hanging around with people. I didn't say that because I don't want to turn around with you.
I saw social person like me, but.
Yeah, that makes it in that thing or I think you just said, where my daughter always asks, you know, did people not want to be your friend or what she'd like bumper head real hard.
She like, did you use the bump your head when you were little, you know, she always wants to know like am I alone in this whole, whole deal.
And man, it seems like it really helps what I say. No, I used to all the time. I show her like my scars and stuff like that and she'll be like, oh, and you can tell she feels better.
Yeah, that's pretty cool. It's weird. I think that would help with a bullying thing.
And it's good. Your daughter's smart. And so she has the capability of formulating that question. I bet a lot of kids might not be able to even say, hey, did you bump your head to where as a parent, if you just recognize that they probably feel alone.
And so if you say, oh, I know you bump your head. I used to bump my head to one time. Look, I got to scorn my head at half of me too. So they don't make your kids beg for a partner in the world. Give it to them.
Follow the aquatrols model of parenting. And that makes sense to another. I'm thinking of it because it's like, even as an adult. Okay. So you got to kid and they're like, hey, did you, I don't know.
Did you bump your head like this and get blood on your head, whatever when you're little and you're like, yeah. And if you add this and this is how I dealt with it, right? Because a lot of times like you give them a little path.
Yes, exactly right. So you got this poor little kid, the bump their head and it's like, dang. I don't even, I've never felt this before. There's a lot of pain. There's blood. Hope that's scary. I don't know really how to deal with it. Right.
So of course you go to your dad and then you dad's like, hey, yeah, I've done it. This is how I did it. This is how I dealt with it. And she's like, okay, maybe I can do with it. And even adult because adults, we do that too. You know, like, dang, I'm getting, I don't know, audit it.
I'm getting audited through first time, whatever, juggle, hey, you know, or, you know, you're trying to whatever is like, hey, I got audited and this way you can.
Back, this is like how you deal with it and all this, boom, you feel better about it. And D and more empowered. And that's on top of the jujitsu. If I got audited out of way or I don't know, jujitsu, then not by the way.
Yeah, yeah.
Check. Next question.
I've got a leadership situation I need help with. I was promoted to a troop commander position over a fellow team leader who now
reports to me. He has many years of experience and a lot of knowledge. He's very, he's very bitter and not getting the promotion, not getting the promotion. And it's letting me know when I include him in decision making for the troop or try to tap into his knowledge and experience.
He shuts down refuses to give input and says that I should already have the answers since I'm the troop commander.
I know the troop would benefit from his input and team dynamics would be much improved if it wasn't so negative.
I've tried to let him know that I value his experience. I feel that his input would be beneficial and that his negative attitude and bearing are not acceptable.
It is making him very ineffective team leader. I'm failing at getting through to him and I don't want, I don't want to fire him for his position.
How can I get him to value his own position in the troop and become effective again?
I actually think you're doing the right thing and you've opened the door for him. I think that's a good first initial approach.
But obviously doesn't seem to be working. Now a couple different courses of actions you could take. One of the things you could do is actually give him some higher responsibility.
I've put his team in charge, put him in charge, the whole team sometimes. Maybe he will step up and start to lead and see that he's now able to prove that you have a lot of trust in him and all that stuff.
There's also a chance. Think about this. There's also a chance that you might be coming off as come to sending to him.
So imagine this. Hey, I go, I value your experience.
Oh, no, right?
You know, the troop would really benefit from your input. It's like you're treating him like it's easy to get and he's getting that those can come off as congeny. So we have to put those a little bit in check as well.
And I think those are a little bit, you know, you put the put the person in charge. You try that.
You've opened up to try and get their input and get them involved. But it's it might be coming in my becoming across as congeny sending even if it's even if you're doing it.
Even if you're just saying, hey man, could really use your input on this thing. It'd be great. Even if you're doing it in like a cool way in your mind, you might be hearing, oh, I could really use your hand.
So even if you're saying it in a perfect way, it still might be hitting his ears in a different way.
So I don't know.
At this point, I think what I would do is I would maybe just back off.
I would just go forward, treating him like one of the leaders and expect him to perform as you expect your leaders to perform.
I think you've made the effort. It didn't really work. And now you have a job of doing. You got to get on with it.
There's also, you know, the world doesn't revolve around his pouting and his being negative.
And you can't let that happen. Now on top of that, this guy's a powder and he's a negative guy. That's probably the reason he didn't get selected to be promoted.
What we talked about earlier, the boss saw that. He saw something along the way where things didn't go his way and he, and he pouted into his negative.
And that's why he didn't get promoted. Meanwhile, the guy that did get promoted when things didn't go his way, he's like, okay, cool.
We'll drive on with with the new plan. And that's why you got promoted.
So I would say move on.
Do your job. Treat him like you would treat one of your leaders. I'd be very careful that you don't overcorrect.
Because you hear me say, like, okay, I'm going to treat him normal. Now all of a sudden, you're treating him like crap.
Don't do that. But treat him as firmly and as fairly as you would, anyone of your subordinate leaders.
And we have to see what it goes from there. He may end up just not being able to deal with this fact.
I mean, there's a reason why some people get promoted and some people don't.
And maybe he's one of these people that can't humble himself,
which is one of our biggest fears in somebody that's trying to be a leader is that they can't humble themselves.
And if that's what's going on, he's going to have a long, hard road.
And you know, who's fault that's going to be? Never his. Never going to be his fault.
Everyone else is fault. And that'll be problematic.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's a tough one right there.
Yeah. Cause in his mind straight up, that like,
you're condescending you don't deserve it. I deserve it.
You know, and now you're kind of early in the day.
Yeah. He's already lacking humility.
What's this? One time in football in it was junior varsity football.
And we're, we're suiting up to play game.
Right. And my bro, Jade, he was, he's really good.
So he, you know, you know how you have that one guy's version,
junior varsity, you have the one guy who makes the majority of the touchdowns.
You know, that's what Jade was at guy. So we're suiting up.
And one of our team guys on the team, he was, he was that guy right there.
He was, he was, he wasn't the thing is, but he wasn't very valid.
He wasn't very athletic, you know, and they kind of played the same position.
Jade was running back. He was running back to, I think this guy was a full back.
I don't know if I forget. Anyway, so he goes to, he goes to Jade.
Oh, time to show off again.
Yeah.
Holy cow. So you imagine the mindset, it's the same.
That guy probably has the same kind of mindset.
Absolutely.
So it's like, man, it's like, you can't even if you are doing the right things.
How you said, like, saying everything all cool in his ears.
It sounds different.
And his ears, it sounds different.
Just showing off again.
Yep.
So sometimes when someone isn't going to hear your words correctly,
sometimes it's best not to say it.
Oh, yeah.
Sometimes just keep the mouth shut.
And you haven't been in an argument with someone,
but you're completely trying to de-escalate it.
And every single thing you said is getting taken the wrong way.
Be quiet, listen, nod your head.
Anyway, you're not going to convince someone.
You're not going to get through them.
They're too emotional.
This guy's too negative.
Yeah.
And everything you say is going to be heard differently.
And not in a positive way.
Yeah. Yeah.
I don't really cut opportunity cost of addressing it.
It is just.
Yeah.
To my ear.
Next question.
I'm often given tasks on the fly,
whereas many of my tasks are given as a result of meetings.
These days, and increasing number are coming from emails,
or my manager or client ask me to do something.
I find myself quite disorganized when dealing with this.
I'm writing things down when I'm told,
but it's all over the place.
Post it, note book, phone, etc.
I don't have a solid method of keeping track of these things.
I'm guessing that a possible solution is to write all these things.
Down in the same place, but I've also tried that,
and didn't really make a difference.
I'd appreciate any input or advice.
You have on how to record and track objectives in a functional and reliable manner.
As I'm subjected to a lot of information each day, week month,
I'm definitely overloaded to remember it myself.
Discipline equals freedom.
So yeah.
The few things first of all,
definitely write the things down in one place.
And it sounds like, since you're moving all the time
or you're going to meetings,
just a nice little notebook with you and write the things down
as you get tasked with them.
Then on top of that, you have to have a master list of some kind.
Either paper or digital,
I'm going to probably recommend digital
to track things overall in a prioritized method.
So if you get tasked with something in a meeting
and your little notebook, you come back,
you put it in the right place in the master task list.
And then twice a day,
consolidate the information that's in the little notebook you have
into the big master list.
And then before you go to bed at night,
you organize those things by priority on the master list.
You put the most important thing at the top,
and that's what you're going to attack the next day.
That's part one.
And how you get these things organized.
Now the part two is you've got a schedule that's going to be
done. And how you get these things organized. Now the part two is you've got a schedule this stuff.
And actually, I always say this when people have trouble with tasks,
put them on the calendar.
You know, actually Jamie does that for me.
When Jamie's got something for me to do,
she just doesn't email me and say,
hey, you need to do this. She puts it on the calendar.
So I look at my calendar bone there as I got to go do this,
whatever this task is done.
So put these things on your calendar and that includes
scheduling time on your calendar so that you can have time
to consolidate your list and do a review of your lists.
You know, whether that takes that probably take 15 minutes to do.
And I guess there's a bunch of apps you can use.
And I'm sure people will make recommendation,
but there's a ton of to do list apps,
including there's one,
there's native ones on all the different phones.
So you could look at that as a possible.
A voice recorder.
You can either use the voice recorder app you have
or you can carry around a little mini voice recorder
then you can just take notes with that
and then you consolidate those notes from your
voice recorder into your master task list every day.
And then you just got to prioritize next cue.
It's pretty straight forward.
Right.
Stuff down.
I always put little boxes in front of everything.
Do you understand like when I have a task,
I put little box in front of it.
So I can check it.
Yeah, it makes,
bro, you're obviously,
come here to do me a master.
Like all that is like dang.
Bro, I'm on the fly just like this guy.
This person straight up like on the fly.
New stuff comes up.
You'd be surprised.
You'd be surprised at how much more you could get done.
If you actually made a list of things you're supposed to do.
How's this?
I make a list and I still try to try to nail it down.
I'll make a list.
I even, okay, so I have a book that Jamie gave me by the way.
A book, a to-do list book.
And then I have my phone.
And then I have this,
oh, and then I have just a regular thing on the paper.
And then I do this thing where I'll open word and have it on my side screen.
And I'll put the list there for the day.
It'll just be up.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Strangely, that has proven to be the best one.
Because I'm, and here I see my mistake right now that I'm telling you this.
I put it on the book that Jamie gave me, right?
I might to do this.
I put it there.
And then I'll tell you this.
It's on that book.
There's one on the on the phone, which is different now by the way.
The master list.
Yeah.
There's some apps that make.
So it doesn't matter if you put it in your phone.
If you put it in your computer, I mean, you can obviously,
if it's on paper, you need to transpose it into digital format.
But there's, there's things that you, yeah, you need to consolidate the list.
You have a master list of things that you're trying to do.
And then I need to attach myself as far as the routine goes to look at that list.
You know, like, that's why you schedule it, which is what I just said.
That's why you put it on your schedule.
Hey, every day when I sit down for lunch, I'm going to do a five minute review of my
list and make sure one track that gives you the afternoon to catch up on anything you
might have missed and just get rid of my other list because half of it is me trying different
methods out.
Right in the middle of carrying out one other method.
You know, so there's a bad thing about trying different trying to combine a bunch of different
methods.
What you're doing when you do that is you're looking for the easiest way.
And I'll tell you the funniest clearest example of that when Dean first started fighting
and he was going through his various stages of trying to figure out how to cut weight.
And he already cut weight and high school is a wrestler.
He knew how to cut weight.
But what happened is people would come along and say, hey, there's this trick.
Yeah.
There's that trick and there's that trick.
And he would try these all these little tricks out.
And you would try them at the same time.
Yeah.
And that's exactly what you guess what.
You don't when you trial these different because what you're really doing
you're looking for something that sounds easy.
Yeah.
I'll do that.
It was the, you know, for Dean, it was like, oh, I'll go in the episode,
salt bath in the hot tub and then it was, oh, you know, and I'll drink just to still water
for the ex amount of days and it's all these, which all these things are viable, right?
We know that they're viable options, but there's you have to use them in conjunks.
They have to, you have to, you can't just like pull the pull whatever little piece you want
and think you're going to be good to go. No, you've got to do, you've got to follow the system.
Yeah.
Take one and go with it kind of.
And what you're trying to do is you're looking for things that sound the easiest.
And that's what you're trying to do.
Yeah.
That's what we're going to do.
Easy path.
We don't like easy path over here.
But meanwhile, like, you got three different paths, all effective.
Meanwhile, you're jumping from one path to the other and you're not even getting
nice.
That's exactly what I'm doing with my to-do list.
I've like four to do list.
Okay.
Being needed to do list that says consolidate all the way up to do list.
That's step number one.
Then I got to remember that that's the list that I'm checking.
Then I got to remember to check it because you know how you up because you always have that to do this in your brain.
You always do.
You know, you like, oh, I got that thing.
By the way, my mind.
You wanted my brain is real solid.
What?
Like the, just the two to do list in my brain is really, really solid.
Yeah.
Like I know what I have to do.
The only, the things I have to write down are things that outside this outside this.
The, the, the, the parameters of daily situations like let's say there's some admin thing that only comes up.
Well, if it comes out super rarely, I'll remember it.
But if it's an admin thing that comes up once every quarter.
Yeah.
I don't, I probably won't remember that.
It's not, it's not so far outside that I remember and it's not in the routine.
So I don't remember.
So I got to write that thing down.
That's what's on my list.
So do you write down the list that's in your head on the on the on the written list?
I'll write down the things that I know are are subject to being forgotten because the other things I don't forget them.
Yeah. So you're just, I don't forget the hard, like, company and I can.
If I have a, let's say I'm going on a trip of a kind, like if I'm going on a regular trip,
if I'm going to go to company that I work with and there in Atlanta and I'm going to fly out there for three days,
I don't even, I don't even have to think about that.
Everything that I do is, is the work I'm doing, the prep I'm doing, everything I do is just standard it's a standard operating,
even the, even the things I'm going to bring with me.
It's the same.
I went on a one day trip to Vegas the other day like in and out.
I didn't even stay the night and I had the same suitcase that I take when I go on a five day trip.
Like it doesn't matter.
I'm not changing any standard operating procedures.
Yeah.
I got there and they said, aren't you leaving today?
I said, yeah.
Why do you bring a suitcase?
This is how I, this is how I travel.
This is the standard operating procedure for me.
I'm not deviating from it.
Whether I'm going for one day, like a nine hour trip to Vegas or a five day trip to Atlanta,
guess what?
It doesn't matter.
I'm carrying the same thing because that's what I do.
So if it's something like that, I don't need to, don't even need things.
Some things don't make my list because they're already my, my list of my head is solid.
Yeah.
It's things that are outside the bounds of the standard operating procedures, those are things that
don't make the list.
Yeah.
And then makes sense for this question.
It's kind of this question because he's getting stuff on the fly.
He's getting stuff on the fly.
He's got to be, he's got to be like this stuff down.
Yeah.
I think we're all kind of the same way in that way where you're going to have one, two, maybe
three things on your mind that no way I'm going to forget this, you know, kind of thing.
But man, those lists, though, you got to, you really got to choose one path and stick with it.
And then remember, that's the thing.
I think that's my problem.
I know that.
Next question.
How did you deal with losses in jiu-jitsu?
Jiu-jitsu day today.
MMM.
losses.
That's what I'm going to turn to.
I just said my first tournament and got the floor wiped with me.
Yeah.
Welcome to jiu-jitsu.
The obvious thing is you got to be good.
You learned, I think we've, I think we've gone through that one.
Yeah.
And then really, you know, how did you get beat?
What areas are we?
And then you analyze and improve in those areas.
And that's jiu-jitsu, right?
Don't dwell in, in, don't dwell in your loss, but learn from it and move forward.
And actually speaking of Dave Burke, I was talking to Dave Burke.
And he was explaining to me his psychological current status in jiu-jitsu.
So he's, however, he's basically my age.
I'm 46, he might be 45 or something like that.
But he's been basically a master of kind of everything he's done.
You know what I mean?
I mean, he's like, like, factually, if you look at his life, he's been top-con, top-con instructor.
He was telling me that during Operation Southern Watch, which was pre, you know, post first call for pre 9-11.
He was the, he was one of the very, very few guys that actually dropped a live bomb.
Yeah.
And, you know, back in the day when no one had an experience.
He was like, I either had really, really done it.
Yeah.
And, and then he was top-con, top-con instructor.
You know, you're just, and then F-35, F-22.
Just all that stuff that he's done.
And he was, he was telling me that, like, if he thinks about it, he gets a little bit bummed out.
Because he's just starting jiu-jitsu right now.
Obviously, it's in his head.
Yeah.
And he's thinking, oh, I'm never going to reach the highest level that I should or could.
I, it started younger.
And so he, he, he, he, it's almost like if he thinks about that too much, it's almost like a little bit.
I'm just not going to do it.
Yeah.
But he, he, he immediately was like, of course, I know that I'm going to do it.
And I'm going to be as good as I can.
But, you know, that, that's, that's also the way life is, right?
Yeah.
Just like when you, how do you deal with losing in life?
You, from your mistakes, you move on.
You don't dwell.
And it's the same thing as you did to you.
Study your weaknesses.
You figure out what you can do.
You fix those problems you move forward.
Don't dwell in the past.
That's it.
Yeah.
That's got to be good.
I actually put into perspective even more, well, okay, so this is just an assumption.
I know.
I just had my first tournament.
I'm assuming white belt.
Maybe blue belt.
Okay.
I'm assuming.
Yep.
You know, it just doesn't seem like at brown belt or something.
Yeah, you're not after certain.
You're not after certain.
You're not in your first tournament.
Yeah.
Typically.
But you wouldn't have this in your mind.
How do you deal with loss?
You won't have that in your mind as a brown belt.
You know, it's a little bit more clear.
Anyway.
So unless you, this is like scar due for life.
I lost and I'll never compete ever again.
Kind of thing.
I think this is, this is a good way to think of it.
Where?
You know, it's like, I don't know.
Your first girlfriend like junior high or something dumped you.
Like at the time it seems like doing whatever.
And then when you're in the adult, you're like,
Oh, I got something to do.
So like when you're white belt and you lost your first, you know,
as a white belt and you're, you know,
I don't know a blue belt,
pro belt, brown belt, black belt, whatever.
And you're thinking about your first tournament.
You're like, oh my gosh, who cares?
It doesn't matter at all.
And really when you kind of put into perspective,
unless you want to dedicate your life to competing,
the tournament's totally amazing.
It's just fun.
And if you take the fun out of it by putting everything on that one
tournament that you're currently doing,
but you won't want to do it.
And you'll kind of think that that's kind of what
competing is about.
It's not.
So if you're, if you lose your first tournament,
my first match in my first tournament,
I lost.
I think it's a floor wiped with me.
But that's a common thing.
Yeah.
You think back on it and not only do you,
well, I think you'll always remember the first one.
But it's far as like whether you want it or not,
it doesn't matter at all.
Totally doesn't matter at all.
And you'll find that the more you compete,
the less it'll matter.
And then do you just to put competition really,
unless you're like really dedicating your,
your life to being a, you know,
a good competitor.
Do you, do you,
competitions?
You're going to win some and you're going to learn.
Yeah, do some and you're going to win them.
You're going to learn.
Yeah.
And you learn and you learn.
Oh my gosh, that doesn't work.
If I don't time it correctly or dang,
that doesn't work because that's not a real submission.
I only do it to smaller guys and they tap because it's uncomfortable.
Kind of thing.
But in the end,
it doesn't even learn these kinds of things, you know,
but it's not even going to matter.
Like dealing with a loss.
It's not even going to be a factor because you're just going to know.
That's just part of it.
And really who cares when you're,
it's kind of just starting out, you know.
Like if you ask,
like a top level black belt competitor,
you know,
did you win?
Ask Quayler.
Right?
He tells the story about him and Hoyce,
and went into their first competition.
Their dad said,
if you win,
I'll give you 10 bucks.
If you lose,
I'll give you 20.
So it takes the pressure off.
Like it's not that big of a deal.
You know,
if you lose, boom, you know,
it's all good.
That's what that was for.
And Hoyler lost.
Hoyce won,
Hoyler lost.
He got the 20 bucks.
You know,
Hoyler,
one of the greatest legendary guys lost his first one.
Yeah.
Put it in perspective.
It doesn't matter at all.
It got 20 dollars.
I don't know.
It's going to get the 20 bucks.
But just it doesn't matter.
It won't matter.
And you're going to think same thing like high school,
like the stuff that happened in high school,
when it happens,
it seems like it's a big deal.
But then when you're in adult,
you're like,
it doesn't happen to the adult.
Cool.
It's a cool memory.
But, you know,
I've been better.
You know,
next question.
Hello, Mr. Whilling.
I'm currently deployed to Iraq as an E6 in the army.
I have listened to your podcasts and really enjoy your stuff.
Especially different disciplines for you.
I know as a sergeant and as a leader,
your focus isn't to be liked.
However, your soldiers should respect you,
respect both you and your rank.
My question is,
how do you tell your soldiers to do the small stuff,
tedious stuff,
like taking out the trash,
and still be liked?
All right.
Well, first of all,
if we want to get respect from people,
we have to give them respect,
for sure.
Think about this.
Think if you took out the trash sometime.
You know,
think if you're the boss,
but you see that the trash is getting no fulfillment,
you just grab it and take it out.
There's to think about what that does.
Think about what that does,
the attitude of the guys.
If you took out the trash,
you,
maybe in your mind,
you think you'd be losing respect.
But you actually wouldn't be at all.
In fact, everyone looks at you and goes,
oh, he's a good guy.
He's taking out the trash.
It was a little full.
Then he's taking care of it.
So,
maybe if you're insecure,
you'd think you lose respect,
but I think if you're secure and your ability to lead it,
and if you know that doing some tedious stuff,
is going to make you guys appreciate you,
then to me,
that means it's kind of worth it.
Yeah,
that's absolutely right.
Another example,
you know, we talk about taking out the trash,
but like,
what if the platoon space has to be cleaned?
And on Friday,
you just say,
hey guys,
you guys can go and roll out.
I got this.
Right?
There's a chance they're like,
hey boss,
we're not leaving.
Yeah,
yeah.
No,
we'll help you.
There's course there's a chance they're like,
oh,
that's awesome.
Thanks boss.
And they bail.
Over time.
That might be if they don't respect you,
at all,
they might bail.
Now,
in order to regain the respect,
do you make them stay and boss them around?
Or does that increase the respect for you?
You see how it is interesting it is?
Yeah.
Is that if you go,
hey guys,
that's cool.
I'll do it.
And you're working hard,
and you still got to maintain the discipline,
and you don't take any slack,
but at the,
you,
it's the same balance.
The balance we talk about all the time.
So,
the more that you treat them with respect,
the more they're going to respect you,
and they're going to know that you're not,
you know,
too high at mighty.
They're going to know that you're down to earth.
When I was a,
a tune commander task commander,
I picked up brass.
I cleaned the ranges with the boys.
That's just the way I operated.
And I would recommend that kind of attitude.
It didn't make people think that.
Oh, jockels does not have anything better to do.
They actually knew I had stuff to do.
But what I got to do,
pick up brass with the boys,
build the relationships,
set the example.
They're going to respect you for it.
Yeah, makes sense.
At the end of the day,
do you have something better to do,
because the whole,
in the big picture,
it's like,
how you say,
like,
that's a leader.
Yeah.
Sometimes you literally have something.
They're literally,
you know,
like sometimes you literally have something.
Yeah.
And sometimes you literally,
the boys are picking up brass and guess what?
You got a meeting with the commanding officer.
You got to go do,
you know,
sometimes you actually do.
And what's cool is,
tactically,
is,
and you heard us saying this at the,
FTX and we're up in Utah.
If you see the leader doing something
meanial,
what you should do is as a,
as a followers step up and say,
hey, echo,
I got this.
You can go and lead.
That's what you want.
That's what I want to do for my leader.
I want to take things off my leaders plate as much as possible.
Yeah.
Now,
the more you try and,
you just have to build those relationships.
The way to build those,
if you don't have anything better to do,
then you get down there and you help,
you help clean up the range.
You help pick up the brass.
Yeah.
That's the way it is.
I actually did notice that about you and
life too,
where,
you know,
like I'll have my camera equipment and,
you know, light or whatever.
And it's not a bunch of stuff,
but, you know,
you're always like,
you're like,
grab something.
Yeah.
And you don't like it.
If you're camera equipment.
Yeah.
Don't touch it.
But,
and when it's just me and you,
it's kind of like cool because we're just kind of friends or whatever.
There's no perceived or no,
like,
hierarchy kind of thing.
Like you're,
you know,
but let's say like at the master,
whatever.
It's like you guys have a,
a specific job.
I have a specific job,
you know, kind of thing.
And meanwhile,
you and,
and life,
well, like if,
if I'm around,
I'm carrying something.
You'll always like grab something or I say,
hey, you need, you know,
you know,
you don't have to,
you talk things.
You're like,
oh,
are you good?
I'm like,
bro,
you're the instructor here.
Kind of the,
that's what I'm thinking of my head.
And,
and yeah,
because I always offered it like help.
Interesting.
I'm like almost offended like,
bro,
like,
do I look like I need help?
Cause you shouldn't really be asking me for
kind of.
There we're,
very capable individual.
Yeah.
And,
this small,
tedious stuff.
The other thing is you explain to him why it's important.
Right?
That's what we give all the time.
Why is it important?
Why is important that the ploon hut's clean?
Well,
cause I want you guys to have time off over the weekends and not be stuck here.
Cleaned in because the commanding officer came in and saw that this place looked like a hellhole.
Okay.
Well,
that makes sense to us.
We understand why you want us to clean now.
You,
you want us to clean so that we can.
Have time off.
You want us to clean so you want us to train hard.
We want us to do this because because we want to be ready for combat.
Cause I want you guys to be able to come home to your families.
Make sure they understand why they're doing what they're doing.
And if there's no reason why,
if, if, if, if the reason,
I mean, even cleaning even taking out the trash,
there's a reason for that, right?
There's an actual reason for that.
We can't just have junk everywhere.
So,
explain why
participate when you can.
Build relationships with your troops.
You'll be good.
Yeah.
That, that works for you.
And by the way, thanks for your service, brother.
I hope you have a good time over in Iraq, getting after it.
Yeah, second that, for sure.
That works for kids.
Big time.
Explaining why you do it.
And if you really want to dial in the effectiveness
is make that reason somehow.
Tie it to their interests.
They're direct interests.
Cause sometimes kids can't see the big picture.
You know,
like if I say, you got to clean your room.
And, you know, otherwise your room would be messy.
And then maybe, you know,
um, later in life, you might be comfortable with a mess
room, like getting the way of your effectiveness.
It's a little four or five year old.
They're not going to understand that.
They're going to be like, cool.
That sounds like terrible, but they won't feel it.
You know?
But if you tie it into their like direct interests
as a four or five year old or however old the kid is,
it works really good.
What if you don't clean your room and there's a fire
and I come in here to get you,
but I trip and fall down and then you die.
That's one way.
Yeah.
For sure.
All right.
I don't know if I'd say that, but it's cool.
Good time for one more here.
Yeah.
Thanks, Suva.
Jocco.
In war,
the enemy is clear,
but in life, in business.
That's a easy to identify.
Any tips?
Well,
I mean, first of all,
that is not a true statement.
And in war,
the enemy is not always clear,
not at all.
The enemy,
the enemy can be hard to identify.
Very hard to identify.
The enemy is going to use camouflage
to conceal themselves.
They're going to use deception
to distract your attention.
They're going to blend in with the friendly civilian and
populist and they're going to take advantage of your benevolence.
Right?
In fact,
the enemy is going to do absolutely everything in its power
to obscure their position to hide their purpose
to even mask their identity.
So,
it is not easy to identify the enemy.
In combat,
in war.
So, what you have to do is you have to control
what you can control.
Right?
You've got to be prepared.
You've got to train.
You've got to study.
You've got to rehearse.
You've got to remain vigilant.
You've got to maintain discipline
and everything you do so that when the enemy
does reveal itself,
you have the ability
to outthink it,
to outmaneuver,
to outfight the enemy.
And it's actually the same thing in business.
Right?
The enemy can be hard to identify.
Your competitors aren't broadcasting their next move.
You don't know what the market's going to do.
You can't be certain about the next trend
or the next downturn to the next bubble
that's going to burst.
You can't know those things.
So you have to do the same thing
if the control what you can control.
Which is you.
You've got to gather intelligence.
You've got to analyze the metrics that you can track.
You've got to train yourself
and your team to be prepared
for both the known and also be prepared for the unknown.
Figure out what the likely contingencies are.
Then have some plans
to execute if those contingencies occur.
Maintain discipline as an organization
so that you have the flexibility
and the responsiveness to maneuver effectively and efficiently.
When the unpredictable actually happens
so instead of suffering
and falling apart in the chaos
you can take advantage of it and win.
And that's business and life is the same.
The enemy is not always clear in life.
It can be hard to tell who's going to try and bring you down.
Or what is going to bring you down?
There's distractions.
There are things out there that will do you harm
that are so camouflaged.
You can't see them at all.
There are deceitful people.
There are accidents that can occur.
And diseases that take root
and there's bad luck and there's Murphy's law
and there's times when it seems
that the whole world is against you.
The whole world is the enemy.
And the same rules apply.
Control what you can't control.
You train hard.
Learn.
Maintain the unmitigated daily discipline in all things.
Train hard physically and mentally.
Push yourself so hard that you become accustomed
to the stress you get used to it.
Every day make yourself stronger and faster and smarter
and better so that when the enemy does
finally climb out of the shadows and expose himself to you
you already.
You are waiting.
And you can relish in the opportunity
to attack and fight and utterly
decimate and destroy him.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo.
Maybe you could help us figure out
how we can support ourselves and perhaps
be better prepared for the enemy
of whichever kind.
And whenever it exposes itself
so that we can smash it.
And if you want to do that, you can also do that while simultaneously supporting
this podcast.
Of course.
Or we could just have a bunch of advertisers on here
and listen to us talk about stuff that.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, either way.
Hey, what I'm here to do.
One of the things I was talking to actually
that's true that where you know how.
You know, you say that a lot and it's easy,
especially me.
What do I say a lot?
Like be ready, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah, prepare.
Stronger faster, smarter.
And you don't like a lot of things after a while.
You hear it like enough.
A lot of times, a lot of times,
sometimes it clicks, but then
everyone's in a while you'll it'll like.
Leave a mark.
No, I don't know the opposite.
Sorry.
The opposite like, okay.
Yeah.
I get it.
And these things like when you really think about that one,
like we, there's this saying, I don't know.
I'm sure it's not new when I heard it.
It was like chance favors the prepared man.
Is that the correct fortune favors the brave.
Wait, wait.
What are you looking for?
That that quote.
Yeah.
It's like basically some chance favor.
They'll the one that I heard was chance favors the prepared man.
Yeah.
For sure.
So it's all.
There's some variations of that one.
I wouldn't straight to the fortune favors the bold or brave.
Yeah.
Well, it's prepared.
Right.
So if you're the shared, you know, you're going to seem to have more luck.
You know, with victory and all this other stuff.
Right.
So it's like, you know, and any circumstances like if you take working out working out is like the easy one because like if you're in shape or you're if you're strong or if you're not weak or if you're not incapable, you know like you don't work out.
So you're back out or something like that or.
Compared with being strong.
Being strong is always more beneficial.
And pretty much every single situation being there is then being with yes or being in shape or you know being healthy.
Mm-hmm.
Being smarter.
Yeah.
What you hesitate about it's it's always good to be strong.
Occasionally it's good to be gummer.
No.
That's it.
It's not one of the.
It's one of those things where where the result of working out and being strong is always going to add a tangible benefit to most of this.
Pretty much everything you do.
Yeah.
And you don't know about being smarter.
I'm not saying that.
I'm not just going to jump into yes.
That's true too because I didn't think about it.
I thought that's not about this.
Oh, that's just my move of yours.
See there you go.
Well.
Nonetheless, but I think that's one of those things where.
We kind of.
It's my opinion that what you just said there is should be taken to heart.
100%.
Concure.
Yeah.
Not just some cool thing like let's face it.
That sounded good.
That sounded cool.
But in there.
I don't.
I don't listen to it because I'm saying.
Yeah.
I thought it sounded dope.
Okay.
But it's it's absolutely true.
And you know, and there's little micro struggles, you know, in life.
It's face it.
I know you have some mic.
I was a lot on the other way.
Oh, my struggles are mic.
You know.
It's seemingly.
But guess what?
No problem.
You know.
No factor.
I was filling up.
Jugs.
And I use this example.
I'm going to do it again.
You know why?
Because it's it every time I fill up jugs.
I think about this.
The struggle is real water.
Jugs.
They're like, well, 40 pounds right.
I think like seven pounds.
How many gallons are there?
I think it's eight pounds per gallon.
Seven.
Okay.
So they're five gallons each.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that's, you know, but no problem.
You know, like you can do it.
No.
I don't need a cart to carry him.
You know, kind of thing.
What do you carry?
Just want to need your own.
Yeah.
Want to need your own.
You would say, you want to say, no, see how you're like, that's nothing.
Yeah.
That's nothing.
But for a lot of people who don't work out or nothing.
It's something.
All right.
Nonetheless, I'm just saying, like, if you're prepared.
Okay.
So tell us how we can have a pair of drugs.
Yeah.
Okay.
So first thing you do is maintain.
Maintain your, your, what do you call it?
Your, your structure.
Foundational structure.
Make sure you're not breaking down.
Starting with your joints.
As always, say,
Chocoism supplements.
Crill oil and
Glucose meaning contractants supplements.
Choco super crill.
Crill oil.
And what's called joint warfare?
Choco joint warfare.
That's Glucose meaning conjoined and some other good stuff for your joints.
It's funny.
Other stuff is actually.
Really beneficial.
So go to origin main.com and read.
So that you can realize the benefits that you're getting because it's good for you.
Yeah.
And I'll go beyond just good for you.
It's the kind where, and I'm saying this first hand.
First hand account.
My, okay.
Before you take this, you're going to have joint pain.
And even this non-factor joint pain.
That's how it did.
Worked the other day.
Dave Brooks popular today.
Yeah.
So Dave Burke asked me about Crill oil.
Just in general.
You're like, well, I don't have joint pain.
Like most of the workouts I do.
See, and that's the thing.
So I was kind of like that too, where I didn't know.
And I don't want to be the guy who's like, no, you do have this problem.
And they're like, bro, I don't have this problem.
No, no, no, you do.
And you need this product.
You know, I'm not, I didn't want to be that guy.
I didn't want to come off like that guy.
So I'm like, yeah.
You'll save coming off like that for the podcast.
No, he made a good point.
If you don't have like joint pain or whatever, then yeah, you won't have the exact experience I did because I did have joint pain.
And I joined pain in places that I didn't kind of realize it.
You just feel like, oh, don't dang, I'm like, I think that's just better.
That's your baseline.
You get used to the pain.
On top of the fact that I had pain that I didn't, that I knew wasn't normal.
You know, just more stiff now that I'm getting older, whatever, but nonetheless, I was like,
You're looking old.
I think, bro, how do I look?
You know, I've burned it in two days by the way.
Okay.
Anyway, sure, you could not have joint pain, but even before I had like any kind of pain from working out or whatever from joint or in my joints or whatever,
I should have started taking it before that.
I should have.
And I'm not saying people take it or what?
I'm not saying that necessarily.
So Dave's question to me was, should I start taking it?
I said yes.
Yeah, 100% it's good advice.
But I did have to let him know.
If you legitimately or not have joint pain, don't think that it's going to be a miracle thing like it felt like for me.
That's the point.
Nonetheless, it's the best stuff because it's from jockel, right?
Yeah, well, it's the best stuff because it's the best stuff.
It happens to be happens to be anyway.
Go to originmain.com for this super-crile oil and jockel joint warfare on the tops of his labs.
I always see that.
It's on the front too.
Yeah.
It's real obvious, just go there.
Originmain.com.
There's also some keys.
If you're still wondering about what gear to get, don't wonder anymore.
Straight up.
Yeah.
And there's actually no comparison.
You're quite honest with you.
There's no comparison.
Every other gear is not made here in America with American hands American material.
Yeah.
So there's no comparison.
You can't compare.
Yeah.
You literally can't compare.
And I don't want to turn this into like, you know,
putting down any other gear company.
So I'm not necessarily going to do that.
But let's face it in certain manufacturing industries.
I guess brands, a lot of brands, they all go to the same supplier in Pakistan.
Yeah.
They all come from the same place.
And that's why I said there's actually no comparison.
Yeah.
And it's not just no comparison.
It's no comparison because it's been designed.
Yeah.
From the ground up by people that do jujitsu.
Yes.
By people that do jujitsu on the daily at origin, factory,
the, you know what the next building is?
The origin training facility.
So it's like, yeah.
It's like we're going to put on our geese and train.
And then we're going to make sure that it's square and away.
Yeah.
From the material.
By the way, it's not like, oh,
what we wanted to look like this and we'll just have to use some random material.
Yeah.
We'll design the material, design the weave of the material.
Yes.
And so that it's optimum for jujitsu.
And that's what we'll make and sell.
So there's no comparison.
Yeah.
And he was like, you know what else to do and anything close to that.
The closest would be, hey, we're making it look.
We're putting a color to it or putting a patch somewhere.
Or, you know, that's the closest you could do to say,
and we're doing something like this.
Yeah.
No one is designing from the ground up.
From the material up from the threads themselves.
Yeah.
The typical scenario.
And by the way, it's not just the geese.
The rashguards.
Same thing.
Yeah.
The material created by origin.
The typical scenarios you get, you know, hey, I'm going to be surprised.
Even these like kind of established geobrans.
Like, so it doesn't matter which ones or whatever,
but they'll be like, hey, yeah, let's do, you know, let's make this ghee.
Oh, by the way, let's get the same blanks that we used.
That we've always been getting in that everyone else.
And let's just put a cool stitch on there or something or patch or design.
That's just the way it typically works.
Not even necessarily that there's anything wrong with it.
Because if you like you'd like your ghee, that's good.
That's how I am.
But yeah, the origin once you kind of put it on,
I will argue that you're going to kind of understand my opinion.
On the last origin main.com.
That's the good one.
Also for legit fitness gear.
Go to onit.com slash jockel.
Good kettle bells on there.
They got some Star Wars kettle bells.
That's cool.
Yeah, see, that's the thing then.
You don't really care that much about these cool kettle bells.
I do.
I think they're dope.
Nonetheless, yeah, kettle bells on there.
I got into kettle bells a while ago.
Very glad I had wished I had done it earlier.
Did I get you into kettle bells?
Yeah.
I got you into Kerala oil and kettle bells.
I thought I'd do it up.
But both, yeah, both not necessarily not actively.
And I got you in the Maccons too.
Maccons.
Yeah, you used to not do Maccons.
I remember you sent me a text sometimes like,
it was like, what's the deal with this, this metabolic conditioning?
Yeah.
You see what should I do?
I just sent you in the albums and you started doing Maccons.
And your cardio on the Mac got a lot better.
Yeah.
Quick, too, by the way.
Maccons.
Maccons with kettle bells and krill oil.
That's the combo right there.
Anyway, and there's a lot of cool other exercise stuff on there.
Like, create more creative stuff.
You know, keep your workouts interesting.
That is on it.
Doc Hans, last chocolate check out some stuff on there.
They got some really good stuff.
Really good stuff.
Audrey's smart with that, where he's always like pushing like the good stuff.
You know, you know, also,
chocolate is a store.
It's called JockelStore.
JockelStore.com.
It has, if you want to get these shirts that we make,
that we happen to make.
They're good shirts, dude.
They're not like free shirts.
You know, the free ones that you need like cool.
And you never wear it.
It's not that kind of very wearable.
I made it a point to make them like good.
You know, some one's stuff on there.
Rashgards, patches, hoodies.
You know, it's a can cold or no.
Places.
No, I'm not a thicker hoodies.
Does it call them a Kawaii right now?
It is.
Actually, it is.
It's like 60.
There's one on top of Kawaii right?
No, not quite.
It's a big island.
Yeah.
Dang it.
I'm on a kid.
I just revealed my, not everyone knows.
Non, Hawaii.
That's all right.
You're coming.
I'm not to me.
I might have to suspend your my colleague card for a little while.
I'll have to now.
I'm not.
Anyway, we got some goodies for people who are in places other than Hawaii.
Or if you're on Monikaia.
Thick or hoodies.
All this stuff.
Anyway, I'm not saying buy stuff.
I'm saying go on there.
Check it out.
If you like something, get something.
It's a good way to support.
Also, subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't already on iTunes and Stitcher and Google play.
Wow, whatever you listen to the podcast.
You subscribe.
Seems obvious.
I know.
If you haven't subscribed, good way to support.
Also on YouTube.
We have YouTube channel.
There is various reasons to subscribe to YouTube.
But the main one, I think.
Main two is if you like the video version of this podcast.
And you like little excerpts.
Whether we put some music behind them.
I want to say we, I mean me.
Put some music behind them and some various effects.
Or not, there is excerpts, you know, little shorter than the whole version of the podcast.
And you can share them.
Listen to them or whatever.
Let quick or anyway.
Subscribe to YouTube as well.
I'm saying if you want.
And if you do want to, and you do, it's a good way to support.
Also, psychological warfare.
If you know what that is, it's an album on iTunes that you can get with tracks.
And you can get that on your campaign against weakness on the path.
Trying to get in better shape.
You're trying to get in shape.
You want to maintain your shape.
You want to.
What wake up early.
I think you covered it.
No, no, no, no.
These are the I'm saying you know, but here's the thing.
It's like, it's because it's okay.
So it seems obvious, right?
You're trying to get in shape.
You're going to have hard days.
You know, days where you're like, I'm going to skip the workout.
Right?
No.
It seems obvious.
That's an element of life on the path that seems obvious.
You'll run into like points of weakness.
It's obvious.
And I dig it.
And there's a track for that.
Jocquitose you why you shouldn't do that.
You just listen to it.
Boom.
Get right back on track.
But I don't always do what I don't always talk about.
Is that there's tracks for other things?
Like the creativity thing.
Like if you got like a procrastination situation.
How's Alan?
You're like, the reason you're looking at me like this is because you already know this,
but not everybody knows this.
You're procrastinating me finishing this podcast.
No, I don't know.
We are finishing this podcast strong with both loads of value.
Because I'm late.
I'm late.
People know.
This is what you did.
You say psychological warfare.
It's an album with tracks on iTunes, MP3, Google Play, Amazon music.
If you're going to run into some issues, it'll help you out getting through those issues.
Next topic.
Yeah.
I guess I could have said it like that.
That's more of like the jocquit way to say it.
You know, like I don't, I feel like if I come from the place of, you know,
authentic relation to this struggle, I feel like it'll, it'll, it'll pass the message in a more accurate way.
I think.
Okay.
You don't skip workouts.
True.
You, do you, okay, here's this.
How's this?
Do you ever sit in your gym?
Sit on the bench or whatever?
Or the bike and be like, man, if I, and make deals with your stuff,
hey, if I skip today, I'll just do it double.
I'll tell you what I'll do is like if I'm doing something that's going to suck.
Like, it squats.
Yeah.
I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll procrastinate.
I'm in the gym. Like it's gonna happen.
Okay.
But I'll like, okay, let me just start talking about that.
There you go.
You know, but it's, it's one of those things like the outcome is known.
Yeah. Yeah.
The outcome is not in question.
Okay.
The workout will happen.
I'm just being a complete baby about it.
Okay.
So then I just have to suck it up.
Yeah.
So see, that's why you're looking at me like that.
Because me and a lot of people like me, we're not like that.
We're trying to be like that.
We want to be like that.
I know I do.
I want to be like skipping the workout is straight up a non-not an option.
Ever.
I want to be like that.
You'll let it happen.
But there are times and have been times where I'm sitting there.
Got, but there's been times I drove to the gym before I got home.
Dropped to the gym, sat in there.
It was like, that's what if I, it look, if it's block right out of here right now.
I skipped this workout.
I need to go for it.
I'm not going to get a good workout anyway.
You know what?
I'll just come back in on Saturday.
That was my active rest.
I'll come back in and I'll get it then.
Today will be my rest day.
Right?
I'm like that.
Some other people are like that.
You're not like that.
That's why you don't understand.
No, I'm doing it.
No.
With some shuffling my papers.
Being passive of a girlfriend.
No.
I'm just very unlike you.
But, you know, hey, man.
So good.
Nonetheless.
Psychological warfare.
I'm trying to make this a point.
This is a for real point.
Valueable point.
Is a track that Jockel.
Right?
Not even though you tried to talk me out of explaining this to you right now.
God.
He will talk you out to out of effectively talk you out of skipping the work.
A skip in the workout.
Talk you out of pressing the snooze or whatever.
All these little points of weakness on that.
Just if you look at them, you'll see all the little points of weakness.
That these tracks address.
It's good.
Very effective.
Cool.
All right.
We done with that section.
Very good.
We have the report podcast too.
All right.
Jockel White T.
You can get that on Amazon.
It will guaranteed 100% double blind.
Plus CBO tested triple blind.
Triple blind.
You can deadlift 8,000 pounds.
So you might want to pick that up on Amazon.
You can read there.
If you don't believe me, that's fine.
Go read the.
The review is on Amazon where every verified purchase is like their deadlifting minimum
8,000 pounds books got some books.
Way the warrior kid.
If you have a kid or you know a kid, then help a kid.
Help them be a better person to have a better life.
Get them the way of the warrior kid.
Extreme ownership.
The new dish is out and you all helped write it because it has questions from this podcast.
Also the new forward.
Also the color pictures lame didn't want them.
But made up for that by just making the cover black because black.
And that book has all the fundamental principles of combat leadership.
It's for you and your team.
You don't need to hide it.
Remembering to be getting people would want it.
They'd get it and they'd want to get for themselves.
Because they want to hide the knowledge because they want to look.
They want to that don't do that.
Doesn't help.
The more people know it, the more people on board, the better it's going to work.
Also from an individual perspective to get yourself on the path.
There's a book called This Pony Goes Freedom Field Manual.
It's available everywhere.
And you might be wondering if it'd make a good gift.
Well, not only is it heavy.
Have you noticed how heavy it is?
It's a heavy book.
It's a big book.
It's a substantial book.
It's completely unique because it has black pages and the outside of the pages are also black.
It's a work of art.
For sure.
So get some copies for the people that you know because beyond looking really cool.
There is no better gift than discipline.
So get some copies.
And also if you want the audio version.
See now look, I'm doing the same thing you just did.
But let's watch how long this takes.
If you want the audio version of this Pony Goes Freedom Field Manual, you can get it on iTunes, Amazon,
Music, Google Play and other MP3 platforms.
Period right there.
Now everyone knows what you took 15 minutes to explain.
If you're in further need of more fire support in terms of basic leadership.
Besides the podcast, besides the books.
And you want to have more interaction.
Take it to the next level.
We have a leadership consulting company.
It's me.
It's life, Babon.
It's JPDenel.
It's Dave Burke.
Can email info at echelonfront.com.
And if you have questions for us or you have answers or you have directions.
Or you want to share something.
You can hit us up on the interwebs.
Twitter, Instagram, and the Fajadapok.
Echo is at echel Charles.
And I am at Jocca Willingck.
And thanks to those people out there that give us the freedom and protection to make of this podcast,
this is the first possible our service men and women in uniform protecting us from the enemy.
And fighting the good fight.
Thank you.
And to the police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics and the rest of the first responders out there.
Thank you for answering the call when we call.
And to everyone out there.
There's enemy.
And whether that is a literal enemy.
Like our military personnel face or a metaphorical enemy.
Like people face every day.
Don't fear the enemy.
Respect the enemy.
And out of your respect for the enemy.
Prepare.
And train.
And learn.
And stay vigilant.
And stay disciplined.
So when the enemy comes.
You are ready.
To get after it.
And until next time this is echo and jacco out.